# User and Machine Accounts
---
User accounts are created on both local systems (not joined to AD) and in Active Directory to give a person or a program (such as a system service) the ability to log on to a computer and access resources based on their rights. When a user logs in, the system verifies their password and creates an access token. This token describes the security content of a process or thread and includes the user's security identity and group membership. Whenever a user interacts with a process, this token is presented.

---
## Local Accounts
Local accounts are stored locally on a particular server or workstation. These accounts can be assigned rights on that host either individually or via group membership. Any rights assigned can only be granted to that specific host and will not work across the domain. Local user accounts are considered security principals but can only manage access to and secure resources on a standalone host. There are several default local user accounts that are created on a Windows system:
- `Administrator`: this account has the SID `S-1-5-domain-500` and is the first account created with a new Windows installation. It has full control over almost every resource on the system. It cannot be deleted or locked, but it can be disabled or renamed.
- `Guest`: this account is disabled by default. The purpose of this account is to allow users without an account on the computer to log in temporarily with limited access rights. By default, it has a blank password and is generally recommended to be left disabled because of the security risk of allowing anonymous access to a host.
- `SYSTEM`: The SYSTEM (or `NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM`) account on a Windows host is the **service account** installed and used by the operating system to perform many of its internal functions. One thing to note with this account is that a profile for it does not exist, but it will have permissions over almost everything on the host. A `SYSTEM` account is the highest permission level one can achieve on a Windows host and, by default, is granted Full Control permissions to all files on a Windows system.
- `Network Service`: This is a predefined local account used by the Service Control Manager (SCM) for running Windows services. When a service runs in the context of this particular account, it will present credentials to remote services.
- `Local Service`: This is another predefined local account used by the Service Control Manager (SCM) for running Windows services. It is configured with minimal privileges on the computer and presents anonymous credentials to the network.

```ad-note
It is worth studying Microsoft's documentation on [local default accounts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/access-control/local-accounts) in-depth to gain a better understanding of how the various accounts work together on an individual Windows system and across a domain network. Take some time to look them over and understand the nuances between them.
```

---
## Domain Users
Domain users differ from local users in that they are granted rights from the domain to access resources such as file servers, printers, intranet hosts, and other objects based on the permissions granted to their user account or the group that account is a member of. Domain user accounts can log in to any host in the domain, unlike local users.

One account to keep in mind is the `KRBTGT` account, however. This is a type of local account built into the AD infrastructure. This account acts as a service account for the Key Distribution service providing authentication and access for domain resources.

```ad-note
`KRBTGT` account can be leveraged for privilege escalation and persistence in a domain through attacks such as the [Golden Ticket](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1558/001/) attack.
```

---
## User Naming Attributes
Security in Active Directory can be improved using a set of user naming attributes to help identify user objects like logon name or ID. The following are a few important Naming Attributes in AD:

| `UserPrincipalName` (UPN) | This is the primary logon name for the user. By convention, the UPN uses the email address of the user.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ObjectGUID`              | This is a unique identifier of the user. In AD, the ObjectGUID attribute name never changes and remains unique even if the user is removed.                                                                                                                                      |
| `SAMAccountName`          | This is a logon name that supports the previous version of Windows clients and servers.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `objectSID`               | The user's Security Identifier (SID). This attribute identifies a user and its group memberships during security interactions with the server.                                                                                                                                   |
| `sIDHistory`              | This contains previous SIDs for the user object if moved from another domain and is typically seen in migration scenarios from domain to domain. After a migration occurs, the last SID will be added to the `sIDHistory` property, and the new SID will become its `objectSID`. |

#### Common User Attributes
```powershell-session
PS C:\htb Get-ADUser -Identity htb-student

DistinguishedName : CN=htb student,CN=Users,DC=INLANEFREIGHT,DC=LOCAL
Enabled           : True
GivenName         : htb
Name              : htb student
ObjectClass       : user
ObjectGUID        : aa799587-c641-4c23-a2f7-75850b4dd7e3
SamAccountName    : htb-student
SID               : S-1-5-21-3842939050-3880317879-2865463114-1111
Surname           : student
UserPrincipalName : htb-student@INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL
```

---
# Practical Exercises
1. True or False; A local user account can be used to login to any domain connected host.
=> False
2. What default user account has the SID "S-1-5-domain-500" ?
=> Administrator
3. What account has the highest permission level possible on a Windows host ?
=> SYSTEM
4. What user naming attribute is unique to the user and will remain so even if the account is deleted ?
=> ObjectGUID